# SigmaEnigma
### Sigma binding site prediction tool
* A sigma factor is a protein needed for initiation of transcription in bacteria.
* An enigma is a mysterious or difficult to understand person or thing.

## Usage
`datasetWithNoneSigma70.xlsx` Was made using the original Sigma70 data 
and the none data generated by the `getNoneData` module.

When the dataset is prepared, the `getCSV` module is used to create input data for the models.
This module also uses `boxFinder` to retrieve information abuot the three Sigma70 boxes.

You can now use the `sequence_feature_start` module to create a decision tree model, or 
`neural_network` to create a NN.

## Sequence_feature_start

This module contains one important script: `sequence_analysis`. This script analysis sequences en classifies them using machine learning as either a Sigma70 containing sequence or a sequence without Sigma70. The machine learning algorithms used in this script are randomforestclassifier, knn and logistic regression.


## Neural Network
This module contains two important scipts: `NNsimple.py` and `NN.py`. The former creates
and evaluates a model as normal. The latter can be used to test many combinations of settings.
To do this, it uses the `NNsettings.json` file where you can define your settings presets.
When starting `NN.py` you can choose one of these presets and the program will create a model
for every possible combination of settings so you can compare them. The results are saved to `results.csv`. The settings are
described below:

| Param | Example | Desc |
| --- | --- | --- |
| hidden_layer_nodes_list | [100,200,300] | Amount of nodes in a layer |
| layer_list | [1,2,3] | Amount of layers |
| loss_list | ["mse", "binary_crossentropy"] | Loss functions |
| optimizer_list | ["adam", "sgd", "rmsprop"] | Optimiser functions |
| activation_list | ["relu", "linear"] | Activation functions |
| epoch_list | [1,2,3] | Amount of epochs |
| seeds | 2 | Amount of seeds to test every combination on
| write_score | 0.80 | Minimum score for settings to be written to a file |
| stop_score | 0.90 | When this score is reached, the program stops |
| equal_layers | true | Whether all layers should be the same. Enabling this greatly reduces the amount of possibilities. Use when you are more interested in the impact of hyperparameters outside of the the hidden layers |
| pre_layers | [[10, "relu"],[20, "linear"]] | You can define the amount of hidden layers, their nodes and activation functions beforehand |
| use_pre | false | Whether to use the predefined layers
